financial controller
london
 
employing over 18,000 staff in over 120 countries worldwide, our company provides leading edge products and services around the globe and are dedicated to continuously developing innovative solutions to help customers print more in-house saving them time and money.
 
we are currently looking to appoint an experienced finance manager to join their team. based at their european headquarters in egham, this is a key position within the european group finance team and reports directly to the finance general manager. managing a team of five, the finance manager will be responsible for all aspects of financial control, financial accounting, consolidations, compliance and tax.
 
responsibilities will include:
 
accounts preparation and consolidation
 

preparation of standalone and group consolidated accounts in line with tight reporting deadlines.
responsible for consolidating group results  in sun consolidation system in accordance with  international financial reporting standards (ifrs)
preparation of statutory accounts
acting as the subject matter on exchange and first contact point for auditors during quarterly, hard close and roll forward audits

 
uk gaap to ifrs conversion
 

act as subject matter expert and project lead for conversion from uk gaap to ifrs

 
audit and reporting
 

manage group audit process and professional advisers
presenting group results and conducting detailed reviews & analytical reviews of consolidated accounts
completing and submitting group results to parent company in japan

 
internal controls and j-sox compliance
 

documenting financial closing standalone and consolidation processes by creating the process descriptions, flow charts and risk control matrices
supporting j-sox activities in carrying out walkthrough, operational and roll-forward audit tests.
conducting internal financial audit of high risk areas as and when instructed by head office management

 
general finance management & operations
 

assisting in the management of day to day operations in the department
continuous review of internal processes to ensure process controls are effective and in line with accounting policies
ensure accounting policies comply with the relevant accounting standards and that group policies are followed.
recommend changes that will improve the company and group's financial performance and financial controls
tax compliance including corporation tax and vat

 
skills / qualifications
 
suitable candidates for this position will be able to demonstrate the following:
 

minimum of 5 years pqe.
first-hand experience of personally preparing consolidated and statutory accounts for a complex organisation. candidates must be able to demonstrate end to end experience of compiling accounts from multiple subsidiaries and amalgamating p&l’s for example.
strong ‘subject matter expert’ level of knowledge relating to exchange
knowledge of uk gaap and ifrs with relation to future conversion
proven team player with leadership skills including the ability to manage and motivate a team and to drive continuous improvement
interpersonal skills sufficient to support, advise and influence managers from different parts of the business whilst providing strong financial control where necessary
strong it literacy, microsoft excel in particular
knowledge of sap and / or sun preferable
critical thinking and good analytical skills
hands-on approach and proven ability to work under pressure and to tight deadlines

 
this is a high visibility, challenging and demanding position and will suit an individual who is seeking a fresh challenge in their finance career with the opportunity to make a significant, personal impact on a global business. in addition to an excellent salary the position offers a bonus and extensive benefits package.
to apply for this position please enclose your cv and salary details.